# Strapi best practices

## Creating content types

### Content type naming

1. In first modal window, start with a name in singular, camelCase, small first letter, no spaces, no special characters, no underscores... (Strapi does some magic with the name, so it's best to start with a clean name)
2. after the content type is created, chande the display name to something readable also for the clients - usually plural, starting with big letter, use spaces

This way, we can be sure that the content type has a well formatted name in code and also in admin UI.

### Content type fields

#### Required fields, title and slug

- Make all fields you rely on required.
- Always try to make at least one field required (usually `title` field) so in frontend, you have at least something to display and we don't end up with empty entities.
- It is always recommended to have `title` field as required field of type `Short string`. It is used also for displaying the entity in admin UI (Strapi cannot display long string as main fields or it is not able to search in them)
- If you need the title accepting new lines, create an optional field of type `Long text` and use it in frontend along with `title`. Use correct css class, usually `whitespace-pre-wrap`:

```tsx
<h2 className='whitespace-pre-wrap'>{titleToDisplay ?? title}</h2>
```

- Setup `slug` as UID field connected to `title` - this way it will be autogenerated from title and it will check uniqueness. We recommend to always setup `slug` as required field.
- Slugs should be set up for those content types that are meant to be accessed directly via URL. For example, `Article` content type should have slug. It is also recommended to have slug for content type that can be used in filters (e.g. `Category` - when we want to filter articles by category). We may want to use category slug in URL query parameter as well:

```
www.our-website.com/articles?category={category-slug}
```

#### Field names - naming conventions

- Field names should be in English.
- Use **camelCase** with small starting letter, do not use underscores, dashes, spaces or special characters.
- Respect singular/plural in names (e.g. plural for repeatable components).
- When naming boolean fields, try to use `is` or `has` prefix (e.g. `isActive`, `hasBorder`) or use a verb prefix (e.g. `inheritColor`).

#### Field names - setup recommendations

- Consider which fields should be **required** and which not.
- Identify which fields should NOT be **localized**, so admins do not have to fill them twice for both locals (e.g. cover image, date of event, etc.)
- For enums, it is usually good idea to choose default value and to make the field required.
- For repeatable components, you can setup min and max number of items so we don't end up with empty components or we can rely on max columns in grid etc.
